(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Let us now solve
our JVM Performance Challenge together.
As a reminder, you can see the details of this challenge
in the repository read me file,
in a file called Challenge-JVM.
So the first thing we want to do to solve this problem
is set our DemoClientApplication
into the correct modality for running.
We have a special settings
here in application properties file
called challenge-jvm.
Make sure your demo.mode property is set to that value.
The second thing we want to do is we want to edit
our runtime configurations for our application
in our IDE.
In my case, we're using IntelliJ.
So what we want to do here
is we're going to set a maximum heap size
and a minimum heap size
using the Java runtime parameters,
- Xmx for max and -XMs for a minimum heap size.
We're just setting them to be the same.
In our case, this makes it a little simpler to watch and see
what's going on.
I have also edit a couple other parameters to my runtime,
which is instructing Java to dump a heap dump
in the case that we hit an OutOfMemoryError.
Since I know that this is going to occur,
that's a convenience for me
and I can use the HeapDumpOutOfMemoryError
in order to force that behavior by the JVM.
So let's apply these things.
And with these setups being done,
and I have an unrecognized option here.
Doesn't like X Java, lowercase ms,
Xms we'll solve that problem.
Okay, let's give this another run.
And we're often running.
So now let us go over to a view of VisualVM.
Let's pull up our monitor of our running application,
give this a few moments
and we are going to run out of heap size
right here in the monitor on the upper right table.
We can keep track of our heap and watch what's happening.
As our CPU activity goes up,
that means our threads are doing things.
And we're going to run out of heap space in just a minute.
There we go, okay.
I don't even like to see this when I'm doing it on purpose,
but there we got our error.
So let's go ahead and stop our application
and let's figure out what to do now.
Okay, what we can do here,
there's two things that we can do.
Over here in VisualVM,
we would like to be able to snag a heap dump,
and sometimes you can get a hold of it in time,
but in this case we cannot.
So instead, we're going to open the heap dump
that we asked our Java VM to throw,
and that will look like this one right here.
Let's open this dump,
and this is going to show us everything we need to know
to trace back through the memory and to solve it.
So you'll know that this heap dumpe from the JVM
tells us actually,
which exact thread was the final straw
that caused us to run out of heat memory.
Let's have a look at our object detail here.
Now, right here at the top,
glaringly we can see that we have a bunch of doubles here,
two and a half million of them
taking 53% of our memory size.
Immediately, that's going to tell you
that very likely this is your culprit,
and this is the neat thing you can do here with a heat dump.
We can drill into one of these instances of double
under the references section of the entry.
And we can look and find exactly where our reference
to this object is occurring.
This is the smoking gun that will tell us
that we can go now into here into our source code
and actually track down the problem.
So I will tell you exactly what's happening here.
We have a reference to a heapleaker object.
We have a condition here when this is true,
which it is in this case,
we're initializing a big static value in that object.
And then we're immediately setting
our local resource to null.
So normally you would think that this object
will get garbage collected,
however, because this list here is static,
that static memory stays on the heap forever
even after we dereference the object that holds it.
So all we're going to do here
is we're going to take away that static modifier
on this object,
and then when that happens,
even though we initialize this list,
which will no longer be static,
once we nullify the reference,
then we will be able to free that memory up.
And then we will not in our case run out of memory.
So let's run this thing again
and see if we get a changed behavior.
Okay, now we did jump up high on our memory usage,
but since we no longer have that references static,
immediately, when we dereference that instance,
we freed our memory back upon the heap,
and now we have heap space available for our threads
to do all of the things that they're going to do.
So that's an example of a heap leak,
how to solve it,
how to navigate your heapdump
in order to isolate a problem,
and that solves our challenge together, thank you.